DOCSP-26286 Class mapping (#45)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/class-mapping.txt

.. _csharp-class-mapping:

=============
Class Mapping
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to customize the way the {+driver-long+}

> maps BSON documents to and from {+language+} classes.

Author: Added some clarification

Creating A Class Map
--------------------

When you use a class to represent data in a MongoDB collection, the
{+driver-short+} automatically creates a class map that serializes or deserializes

> that data. It does this by matching the name of the field in the document to the

Author: Yep, added some clarification

> that data. It does this by matching the name of the field in the document to the

Author: Yes, reworded

> name of the property in the class. You can choose to manually control the

Author: I believe it's just the name. Waiting on eng to confirm

> name of the property in the class. You can choose to manually control the

Author: Got confirmation from engineering. It only serializes based on the name but the type does matter due to the way the serializers worked. I restructured a bit and added an Automatic Class Mapping section so that I could detail this a little more.

a class map.

Ignore Extra Elements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a BSON document is deserialized to a {+language+} class, the {+driver-short+}
looks at the name of each field in the document and tries to find a matching property
name in the class. By default, if a field in the document doesn't have a match in the class,
the driver throws an exception. However, you can choose to ignore any elements that do 
not have a matching class property by using the ``BsonIgnoreExtraElements`` attribute.
This prevents the driver from throwing an exception, and maps any other fields
that have matching class properties.

The following example shows how to add a ``BsonIgnoreExtraElements`` attribute
to a class.

.. code-block:: csharp

   [BsonIgnoreExtraElements]
   public class Person
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }

       public int Age { get; set; }

       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}
   }

You can also ignore any extra elements when initializing a class map as follows:

.. code-block:: csharp
   
   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap => 
   {
        classmap.AutoMap();
        classmap.SetIgnoreExtraElements(true);
   });

Support Extra Elements

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Author: Moved it down under the "Customize Property Serialization" section

You can design your {+language+} class to store any extra elements in your
document that don't have matching class properties. To do this your class must
have a ``BsonDocument`` type property to hold the extra elements.

You can use the ``BsonExtraElements`` attribute to specify the property 

> to use to hold extra elements as follows:

Author: I reworded this section a bit

.. code-block:: csharp

   public class Person
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }

       public int Age { get; set; }

       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}

       [BsonExtraElements]
       public BsonDocument ExtraElements {get; set;}
   }

You can also support extra elements when initializing a class map as follows:

.. code-block:: csharp
   
   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap => 
   {
       classmap.AutoMap();
       classmap.MapExtraElementsMember(person => person.ExtraElements);
   });

.. note::

   When serializing the class back to BSON documents, the extra elements may

>    not be in the same order as they were before deserialization.

Author: Reworded this to hopefully get the point across better

Using Class Discriminators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can specify **discriminators** to help identify **polymorphic** classes that
are serialized to the same collection. Polymorphic classes are classes that
inherit properties and methods from a parent class. A discriminator is an
element that's added to a document to identify which class the document was
serialized from.

You can specify a discriminator using the ``BsonDiscriminator`` attribute as
follows:

.. code-block:: csharp

   [BsonDiscriminator("personClass")]
   public class Person 
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }

       public int Age { get; set; }

       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}
   }

You can also specify a discriminator when registering a class map as follows:

.. code-block:: csharp

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap => 
   {
       classmap.AutoMap();
       classmap.SetDiscriminator("personClass");
   });

.. tip:: 

   The driver stores your discriminator in the BSON document after the ``_id``

>    field with the name ``_t``.

Reviewer: Now I think the content from the note admonition can be taken out and just put into the document before the example.

.. TODO: Link to page on polymorphism/discriminators

Mapping with Constructors
-------------------------

By default the {+driver-short+} requires a constructor with no arguments in
order to map classes. However, you can use attributes or expressions in your class
map registration code to allow the driver to map documents to a constructor with

> arguments.

Author: This was a hard one for me as well. I reworded it so let me know if it makes more sense now!

> arguments.

Reviewer: Could you show what it looks like to call the constructor? I still am a little confused by what "you can instruct the driver to automatically map the class using a constructor that takes one or more arguments." means. How does adding a constructor change the mapping behavior?

The following example shows how to customize your constructor using attributes:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :emphasize-lines: 9

   public class Person 
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }

       public int Age { get; set; }

       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}

       [BsonConstructor]
       public Person(string name, string age)
       {
           Name = name;
           Age = age;
       }
   }

.. tip:: Multiple BsonConstructors

   If there are more than one constructors with the ``BsonConstructor``
   attribute, the driver uses the constructor that has the most
   parameters with matching fields in the document.

The following example shows how map documents to your constructor while

> registering a class map:

Author: Reworded this whole section

.. code-block:: csharp
   :emphasize-lines: 19

   public class Person 
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }

       public int Age { get; set; }

       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}

       public Person(string name, string age)
       {
           Name = name;
           Age = age;
       }
   }

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap =>
   {
       classmap.AutoMap();
       classmap.MapCreator(person => new Person(person.Name, person.Age));
   });

> Customize Class Properties
> --------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customize Property Serialization
--------------------------------
```

You can customize how the driver serializes specific properties in a class by
using attributes on the property, or by calling methods while registering

> a class map. To learn how to customize properties in your {+language+} class,

Reviewer: The "or" clause here is not explained. Is that a reference to things discussed in this page? If not, omit that clause

Author: Removed the "or" clause

see :ref:`csharp-custom-serialization`.

Dynamically Serialize Properties
--------------------------------

You can use a method to determine whether or not to serialize a property. For
the driver to automatically use the method when serializing, the method must be
named ``ShouldSerialize<property name>``. When the driver sees a method with
this naming convention, it will use the method to determine whether or not to
serialize properties of the provided property name.

The following example creates a method that only serializes the ``Age`` property

> if its value is greater than ``0``:

Reviewer: What happens if the age is <0? Is it not included in the BSON representation at all or set to `null`?

Author: It will ignore it if the age is < 0. I added that to the text as well

.. code-block:: csharp

   public class Person 
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }

       public int Age { get; set; }

       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}

       public bool ShouldSerializeAge()
       {
          return Age > 0;
       }
   }

> You can also specify the method while registering a class map as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also specify the method while registering a class map:
```

Class Mapping
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to customize the way the {+driver-long+}
maps BSON documents to and from {+language+} classes. You should read this page
to learn more about the default class mapping behavior, or if you need to
customize the way the driver serializes or deserializes your data.

Automatic Class Mapping
-----------------------

When you use a class, rather than a ``BsonDocument``, to represent data in a 
MongoDB collection, the {+driver-short+} automatically creates a **class map**
that it uses to serialize or deserialize your data. It does this mapping by matching 
the name of the field in the document to the name of the property in the class.

.. important::

   The type of the property in your class should match the type of the field in
   the document. The {+driver-short+} instantiates a serializer based on the
   type of the property in your class. If the types don't match when the driver
   attempts to serialize the data, the serializer will throw an exception.

Manually Creating A Class Map
-----------------------------

> You can bypass the driver's automatic class mapping functionality, and manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can bypass the driver's automatic class mapping functionality and manually
```

define the class map by using the ``RegisterClassMap()`` method.

The following example defines a ``Person`` class:

.. code-block:: csharp

   public class Person
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }
       public int Age { get; set; }
       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}
   }

The following code demonstrates how to register the class map for the ``Person``
class: 

.. code-block:: csharp
   
   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap => 
   {
       classmap.MapMember(p => p.Name);
       classmap.MapMember(p => p.Age);
       classmap.MapMember(p => p.Hobbies);
   });

.. important::

   You must register a class map *before* it's needed in your code. We recommend
   registering class maps prior to initializing a connection with MongoDB.

You can also manually map a subset of class properties, while still
allowing the driver to automatically map the remaining properties. To do this, 
register a class map and call the ``AutoMap()`` method before manually 
specifying your properties.

The following example uses the ``AutoMap()`` method to automatically map the properties

> of the ``Person`` class. It then manually maps the ``Hobbies`` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the ``Person`` class except for the ``Hobbies`` property, which the driver manually maps.
```

.. code-block:: csharp
   
   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap => 
   {
       classmap.AutoMap();
       classmap.MapMember(p => p.Hobbies);
   });

Customize Class Serialization
-----------------------------

You can customize how the driver serializes and deserializes documents at the class

> level by using attributes with the class, or by calling methods while registering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
level by using attributes with the class or by calling methods while registering
```

a class map.

Ignore Extra Elements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a BSON document is deserialized to a {+language+} class, the {+driver-short+}
looks at the name of each field in the document and tries to find a matching property
name in the class. By default, if a field in the document doesn't have a match in the class,

> the driver throws an exception. However, you can choose to ignore any elements that do 
> not have a matching class property by using the ``BsonIgnoreExtraElements`` attribute.

Reviewer: Break up paragraph
```suggestion
the driver throws an exception. 

You can choose to ignore any elements that do 
not have a matching class property by using the ``BsonIgnoreExtraElements`` attribute.
```

   }

You can also ignore any extra elements when registering a class map:

.. code-block:: csharp
   
   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap => 
   {
        classmap.AutoMap();
        classmap.SetIgnoreExtraElements(true);
   });

Using Class Discriminators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can specify **discriminators** to help identify **polymorphic** classes that
are serialized to the same collection. Polymorphic classes are classes that
inherit properties and methods from a parent class. A discriminator is an
element that's added to a document to identify which class the document was
serialized from.

You can specify a discriminator using the ``BsonDiscriminator`` attribute as
follows:

.. code-block:: csharp

   [BsonDiscriminator("personClass")]
   public class Person 
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }
       public int Age { get; set; }
       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}
   }

You can also specify a discriminator when registering a class map as follows:

.. code-block:: csharp

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap => 
   {
       classmap.AutoMap();
       classmap.SetDiscriminator("personClass");
   });

> .. note:: 
> 
>    The driver stores your discriminator in BSON with the field name ``_t``.
> 
> A document from the ``Person`` class with the "personClass" discriminator is
> stored in the collection as follows:

Reviewer: Take the note content out to be in the document.

```suggestion
The driver stores discriminators in BSON with the field name ``_t``. The following example shows how a document from the ``Person`` class with the "personClass" discriminator appears in the collection after serialization:
```

.. code-block:: json

   { "_id": "...", "_t": "personClass", "name": "...", "age": "...", "hobbies": [...]}

.. TODO: Link to page on polymorphism/discriminators

Mapping with Constructors
-------------------------

By default the {+driver-short+} requires a class to have a constructor with no 
arguments in order to automatically create a class map. However, you can
instruct the driver to automatically map the class using a constructor that takes one

> or more arguments.

Reviewer: How does this change the serialization behavior/how does it change the way documents appear in BSON?

The following example uses attributes to instruct the driver to create
a class map with a constructor that accepts multiple arguments.

.. code-block:: csharp

>    :emphasize-lines: 6

Reviewer: I think the wrong line is emphasized

       public string Name { get; set; }
       public int Age { get; set; }
       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}

       [BsonConstructor]
       public Person(string name, string age)
       {
           Name = name;
           Age = age;
       }
   }

.. tip:: Multiple ``BsonConstructor`` attributes

   If there are more than one constructors with the ``BsonConstructor``
   attribute, the driver uses the constructor that has the most
   parameters with matching fields in the document.

You can also specify the constructor to use when registering your class map:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :emphasize-lines: 17

   public class Person 
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }
       public int Age { get; set; }
       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}

       public Person(string name, string age)
       {
           Name = name;
           Age = age;
       }
   }

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Person>(classmap =>
   {
       classmap.AutoMap();
       classmap.MapCreator(p => new Person(p.Name, p.Age));
   });

Customize Property Serialization
--------------------------------

You can customize how the driver serializes specific properties in a class by

> using attributes on the property. For more information on ways to customize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using attributes with individual properties. For more information on ways to customize
```

> properties in your {+language+} class, see :ref:`csharp-custom-serialization`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
property serialization in your {+language+} class, see :ref:`csharp-custom-serialization`.
```

serialize properties of the provided property name.

The following example creates a method that only serializes the ``Age`` property
if its value is greater than ``0``. The driver ignores any properties whose
values don't meet this requirement:

.. code-block:: csharp

   public class Person 
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }
       public int Age { get; set; }
       public List<string> Hobbies {get; set;}

       public bool ShouldSerializeAge()
       {
          return Age > 0;
       }
   }

You can also specify the method while registering a class map:

.. code-block:: csharp

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Employee>(classmap => 
   {
       classmap.AutoMap();
       classmap.MapMember(p => c.Age).SetShouldSerializeMethod(
           obj => ((Person) obj).Age > 0
       );
   });

Additional Information
----------------------

For more information on using {+language+} classes, see :ref:`csharp-poco`.

API Documentation
-----------------

- `BsonClassMap
  <{+api-root+}/T_MongoDB_Bson_Serialization_BsonClassMap_1.htm>`__
- `RegisterClassMap
  <{+api-root+}/M_MongoDB_Bson_Serialization_BsonClassMap_RegisterClassMap__1_1.htm>`__
- `AutoMap

>   <{+api-root+}/M_MongoDB_Bson_Serialization_BsonClassMap_AutoMap.htm>`__

Reviewer: There are more methods mentioned in the document that could be listed here. Just a suggestion to include them.
